Day 1

Pre - requisites
1)
Problem: you have been given a doubly linked list, rotate the linked list counter clock wise, Now in this scenario you will also be given a positive integer N using which you need to rotate the linked list counter clockwise.

This N will be smaller than the total numer of nodes in the linked list, which makes it valid to rotate the linked list counter clockwise.


Languages are divided into 2 categories:
a) Based on translations
1) compiled:     Uses compiler. 
	       Compiler scans the whole code. checked for errors and then gets translated at a time to a .exe file.
	       Compilers only translate the code.
	       Compilers are faster.
		C & C++ language compiler is mingw
2) interpreted:  Uses interpreter
	        Scans the code and translates it line by line.
	        Interpreters can translate and excute.
	        Interpreters are slower.

Java is compiled and interpreted! Why? How?
	There are 2 compilers in Java: Javac & Just In Time compiler.
	Javac converts .java file to .class file (Byte code) not executable by the machine yet.
	JIT will interpret and execute this Byte code and hence Java is both compiled and interpreted.

JDK----> JRE & Dev Tools
			|	|
			|	|	 
			JIT	Javac
			JVM

b) Based on typing
1) Statically typed:    Ex: int a; the memory location is fixed only for int data type. We declare the variables.
2)Dnamically typed:  Variables can store any value of any datatype, datatype can be changed in runtime. Even return types. No need/ cannot declare the variables.


OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAM
Main aims: 1) code reusability.
	  2) code security.
Classes is a nonprimitive/ user defined datatype.
Advantages of using classes:
1) reusability.

Objects are the variables declared with the user define data type or the class.
In JAVA ->Objects are allocated size by JRE depending on the size of the class. And this is calculated by the compiler.

The job of a Consructor.
1) Contruct the object.
2) intialises all the attributes of the class.

4 pillars of OOP
1) Inheritance.
	All properties of parent class can be inherited by child class.
2) Polymorphism
3) Encapsulation
4) Abstracion

C basics:
	Main function in compiled languages marks the beginning  from where macine to begins to executing the code. 

C++ basics:
	cout and cin are not functions, the are commands to feed the i/o streams.
	using namespace std; its written to avoid/fix name collisions.

Assignment:
1) Learn about preprocessor directives.

	There are 3 types of preprocessor directives.
		i) File inclusion: 
			Includes files before compilation starts.
			
		ii)Macro Substiution:
			Used to define values bbefore comilation of program.
		
		iii)Compiler Control: 
			instructing compiler to check if macro is defined.

	(Anything in C resembling languages starting with # is a preprocessor).
	# will preprocess entire code before sending it to the compiler.

2) Find how many jumps are needed in order to reach the last elemnt in a given array